High in this video we're going to continue looking at extended unpacking.
So first let's find a list of six elements in it.
And let's see how we might retrieve the first element and then the rest of the elements into two separate
variables.
And we're first going to do that using slicing.
If you're a little rusty on slicing don't worry about it.
We're all going to cover slicing and a lot more detail later on in the schools.
So for now here's how we might do it.
We might say A equals zero.
That would be the first element.
And B we want to be from the second element.
So starting an index one all the way to the end and so we use the notation.
So now we can go ahead and print A and B and B and indeed we get that is false the element and B is
the rest as a list.
Now you can also simplify this just slightly.
We're going to use unpacking to with Cosway.
So we really haven't changed how we did this.
The only thing that we change is that we're now using this parallel assignment which is just unpacking
this tuple into this one over here.
And so we get that result the same result.
So now let's go ahead and do it using unpacking extended unpacking.
We're going to use the stound expressions here so we can say a comet still b equals L.
And when we do that Python is going to look at this list and it's going to say OK I'm going to take
the false elements of the list and assign it to the false element here.
Then it looks at this and says all you want the rest of it.
You want the rest of that list to go into B.
And so a is 1 and B is that list 2 3 4 5 6 the remaining elements.
So it's the same thing as doing here.
There is one major difference though between using the slices that we have here and using the extended
unpacking using standard expressions that we have here.
This Remember we'll walk when L is any iterable this slicing his only works with eight roubles that
are actually indexable.
So for example you would not be able to say let's say that we have S is the set 1 2 3.
You would not be able to say that a equals Eske 0 and then B equals s 1 up to the end.
That's not going to walk because sets do not have a concept of Oldring.
So there is no first element and second.
So if you try and run that Python's obviously going to complain going to say or not you can't do that.
And we see we saw that before in the last video when we were trying to unpack sets.
OK so be careful with that.
The other thing too that I want to point out is let's say we unpack again but let's say we have a good
set of tuple is
while it's thickest move it's like a string or tree.
And I would be just as just as easy.
So S is a string.
Now of course it's an iterable.
So we can unpack it and we can say a comma style b equals S..
So what's going to happen is that remember iterating through the string.
So in writing for each character.
So it's going to sign P to a and then the rest is going to get assigned to the box.
If we look at a that's p that's fine.
But the whole notice is now a list and that's what happens when you use these start expressions that
always result in a list irrespective of the type that you started with.
So now look at the tuple.
Let's say we have a tuple.
That is a comma.
The policy that say three strings
Zeps.
And now we say a comma Stobie equals t then a is indeed the string a.
But B is not a tuple.
It is a list.
Right so even though this the right hand side here started slide as a tuple.
When we on packed into B the rest it was actually on fact as a list is always going to be a list.
OK.
The thing I'd like to point out is that you can unpack.
We've always been unpacking to tuples but you can actually unpack to a list as well.
There's nothing that says you have to unpack to a tuple.
It could be to a list as well.
So let's try that.
Could say a comma.
The equals.
Let's do a string that say Wah.
In this case I need three if I'm going to use three characters in the string.
And so a is x B is y and z z.
Right so this is a side note you can unpack into a list as well but it really doesn't make that much
of a difference because you're always going to be referencing the variables by the names right.
So there's no real benefit here to unpacking into the left hand side.
That is a list sort of a couple.
OK so now let's continue and let's look at how we can further enhance the extent of unpacking these
thought expressions.
We don't have to have only the fourth element.
We could have the first element then the second element and then the rest equal to let's say the string
is the string.
And so we get that A's P B is why the second element and C is the rest.
So that's one way that we can extend this we can further extend this by doing this a comedy comma starring
C and D.
So in other words here's how we want to unpack.
We want to unpack the last element of the string into D and then the first two elements of the string
into a and b respectively.
And then the rest into C.
So if we do this we indeed get that a P B is y d s n the last element and C is the rest th and all now
of course the string is indexable.
So you could use slicing if you wanted to.
A little more tricky.
So let's see how we might do it using slicing and I just want to do this to show you how elegant the
extent of unpacking can be and how it can make your code a lot easier to read.
This is very self-evident right.
Where unpacking the first and second elements the last element and then the rest.
And to see that's you know when you read this line of code it's very understandable.
Now let's see how we might do it using slicing.
And again if you're a little rusty on slicing don't worry we'll cover it in a lot of detail later on
in the scopes.
So here we're going to unpack the first element the second element we're going to want the rest.
And then the last elements so the rest is really everything except the first second and last element.
And how are we going to do this.
Well we're going to take s 0.
That's the first element.
Then we're going to take the second element.
Now you'll notice I'm using unpacking I'm using parallel assignment here I could do this.
You know each Wilens on separate line.
Then what do I want.
Well let me just go ahead and take the last element for.
So I want negative one right.
I want the last element of the string and then I want everything in between.
So I want everything from and from and including t up to and including 0.
So I want everything from t up to but not including And which is the last one.
So I would do it this way who would start at the third element which is going to be T.
And we're going to end at one short of the last elements so Latha and then being negative 1.
Of course that won't be included in the slice.
And so if we do this we can print a print B print C and print D and we get the same thing.
P y th.
And now notice though that because we use the slice a slice will return the string Franks with slicing
a string so we get a string back.
We don't get a list back.
Now if you wanted to do that that's fine.
You can always convert a string to a list we solve for example how to do it using assignments right.
We can do something like this for example maybe I want to see style C comma equal C.
So what am I doing here.
I'm unpacking the string see into this stound element.
So it's just going to give me a list.
It's a very handy way of doing it.
We get that then we get in that C is a list.
Of course you can also do something different if you want.
This meant more than one way of doing this.
You can just convert C directly to a list and you get the same thing.
So whichever way you want to do it you can use unpacking to transform that string into a list of characters.
Or you can just use the list constructor that works equally well OK.
So now we've looked at how to unpack using stop expressions on the left hand side of an assignment.
We could actually also use those expressions on the right hand side of the assignment.
So let's see how that might work.
Let's go ahead and say L-1 equals 1 to 3 so we'll take the list one with three elements and we'll take
lists to equal to four five and six to make the elements distinct from them.
And let's go ahead and join these two lists together.
L equals star l one promised to and I want to join them in a set somewhere and join them in a list.
We'll see later that we can actually join them in two sets as well.
That's not a problem.
So if we go ahead and print l now we see that L is 1 2 3 4 5 6 cent. What happened is that it unpacked
L-1 right here and it unpacked L2 right here and then we were able to then create a list that contained
these two sets just a very handy way of joining two lists together.
Now of course this works with any iterable so it doesn't have to be just lists.
You could say l one equals one comments in common three and we can have a string let's say.
And let's take ABC and now we can create another object that I'm not even going to assign to a variable
and then printed we'll just do it directly.
And for instance we'll two star and one star s and of course when we get back is one to three and a
b c right.
Unpacked l one and n back s.
Of course you don't.
You can also use let's say a list and let's say a set that's called ceps.
Let's put it in X Y and Z just to keep it different from the last example and we can of course unpack
into a list and we get the same thing 1 2 3 0 0 0 1 2 3.
We'll retain the order.
But the set for members doesn't have a guaranteed order.
And so we don't get that right.
We just get that.
It could be in any order in this case Z happened to come back us and it works the same way with dictionary
unpacking it will unpack the keys by default or you can use the values method to unpack the values and
so on and so forth.
Now you don't have to unpack you know into a list here I'm unpacking things into a list but you don't
have to.
So let's take a look again at an example.
Let's say we have string one equals ABC and string two equals CD.
Now you'll notice that I've got the same character see here and here.
So we can certainly unpack that into a list.
Right.
We can say start al one star one star s2.
And we get a b c c d e You'll notice that the C is repeated it's OK to have repeated elements and lists
and we have them.
Now what happens if you just want to create.
Let's say a sequence that contains all the characters of S1 and S2 but without repeating the elements
well that's pretty straightforward.
We're going to unpack into a set.
So we'll do we'll unpack into a set and will say S1 and S2.
And here we go.
So now we do not have the character C repeated because sets don't allow repeat characters.
So it's basically ditch that and we'll circle back to that little bit later in this video.
And of course also on the section onsets start talking about sets let's go ahead and see how this works
with sets as well.
Right.
Remember this extended unpacking can walk and I'm going to now go back to unpacking on the left hand
side of the expression can work with any iterable.
So with a indexable iterable you can use slicing if you want to or you can use the extended unpacking
with non indexable types like for example sets.
You can't use slicing but you can still use the extended unpacking.
Let's go ahead and take a look at an example.
Let's say we have this set up here.
Again the Edelmann types don't have to be homogeneous.
And let's see first if we iterate through s what we get.
OK.
So again you can see the order is not guaranteed.
So here the character came first and then 10 then three then negative ninety nine Fox.
Of course since it's iterable we can unpack it and we've seen that before right.
We could say AVC the people as we saw that in the last video.
And now if we print a b c d we get you know the 3 negative ninety nine.
So that works the same as before.
But of course style expressions work here as well and we can say a comma the let's say second element
so we're talking about the first element.
The second element and the rest k equal to s.
Now there's an issue here because the first element doesn't mean 10.
The first element has no real meaning it's going to be whatever force element comes back in the iteration.
So in fact it's going to turn out to be D in this case and the second element will be 10.
But there is no ordering in sets.
So you know doing this kind of unpacking here.
Yeah.
It's it's not that useful.
It walks and there might be some use cases where you find that you want to do that because then maybe
you've got a set of tools three values and some how you want to split them up into three variables because
you want to work with them independently and that's perfectly fine.
Then there was.
But you're not guaranteed of course of the older of you know which element is going to be assigned to
your first variable second variable and so on.
So in fact if we take a look here for a full a is d.
Right.
Even though our set was initially defined in this order.
And our second element quote unquote is 10 which was the second item in the Russian and then the rest.
Well yeah.
The rest will come back.
And of course it comes back as a list even though we started with a set with whatever wasn't unpacked
into a and b.
So it was the same way.
The only thing is because of the lack of Oldring it's a little bit or less useful.
Now for example let's go back and look at something we saw here and it's that can be on the other hand
quite handy.
Let's say you want to transform a set into a list.
So let's say we have this one.
Well let's take the same set right.
We have all set S already.
Well there is one way of doing it which is to use the constructor.
And now you just get a list.
OK that's one way of doing it.
But the other way of doing it is to say something like style C comma equals s.
Now here we're going to unpack s into C.
We're going to unpack.
There's no for the last element.
We're going to unpack that for everything into C and of course we have to make the left hand side the
top or list.
Let's just stick to tuples and so if we do that we get the same thing.
We get that C is not all that list.
So again it's a handy way to unpack something into a list when it may not have started off as of this.
So let's also look now at septs.
Again let's say we have two sets one common two common three and two equals four.
Come a while let's repeat it.
Let's say three four comma five.
OK.
We have these two sets.
And let's say we want to merge those two sets.
And we've kind of seen this before.
Right so you shouldn't know how we're going to do that yet you cannot use one process to write flosses
not define full sets.
When we go and look at sets later on the scores we'll see there's other ways of doing this we can use
something called the Union.
But for now there's another way we can do this.
So we want to combine as one and as two into a single item into a single set.
Well we can just unpack it into a set right.
We can just do this and we get one two three four five.
So we just use the unpacking.
So this is like unpacking on the right hand side right so it equals that right.
And then see is equal to one two three four five.
And you might think well the all OK.
Why not use the union.
Sure.
Right.
We can use the union.
And if you need to look you can look at the help on set and if you scroll through that you'll see that
there is a union operation as a union function essentially a method that we can use here we go.
We turn the union so we could say S1 DOPs Union as to hours does fine.
We get the same thing.
So here you have three different ways of doing the same thing.
We all choose whichever one is most appropriate in the context that you're walk in what happens if you
want to do more.
Let's say we have won equals one comfort to come three.
And we have two equals three come a four coming five.
We have three equal to five six seven.
And as for being the set seven eight nine.
OK.
And you want to union everything together.
Well sure.
You can use union as well.
You could say as one docked Union has two docked Union as three docs Union as full.
That's one way of doing it.
And you get that union of course.
Union walks a little bit better than just that.
So we can also do union s to come as frequently as full.
We can do that as well.
But there's also a cleaner way actually of doing it which was the same which is the unpacking.
Right.
So we're going to unpack as one unpack is to unpack S-3 unpack.
As for how we're going to unpack it into a set.
Now that's the advantage as well we don't have to unpack into a set.
We can unpack into a list in which case we'll get the repeated elements and then you can do something
with that that you will count the number of times the number of times each element appears in that list.
So that way you know the number of times that each element appears in each set here or in the union
of the sets while only the union of the sets because sets of course don't have repeated elements.
But you understand what I'm getting at.
So you can do it this way or you can just unpack directly into a set as well.
OK this will work the same way.
Except now we don't have the repeated elements.
So this is just maybe a little cleaner than doing something like this.
Kind of depends you know where you're walking where you're typing to say maybe you're doing this in
a function call in which case this might look better than this.
They're all equivalent.
You can do whichever ones you want.
The advantage though is that you can also do that with dictionaries so we can use the star operator
for dictionaries.
So let's go ahead a look an example.
Let's say we have the one who value of one quality to have a value of two.
And then we have another dictionary with the same keeps on repeating the key you'll notice to repeated
but I'll give it a value of three.
And the fourth will take a value of four.
So now we have two dictionaries and we want to merge those two dictionaries together and there are other
techniques of doing it.
But a very very simple way is to create a new dictionary where you unpack the dictionary.
Now we've got to be careful because if we use this what's going to happen.
And in this case well I'll leave the curly braces.
Where do you think's going to happen.
What happens when we unpack a dictionary.
We get the keys back.
Right.
So in this case we're unpacking the keys of D1 the keys of the two and then we're pumping that into
a set.
So we get one key to in key full.
Right.
So that's that's the thing here is that we're unpacking just the keys.
We can however unpack both the key and the value as first into a dictionary.
But instead of using the single star operator we use the double star operator and the double star only
works with dictionaries so we can do it this way.
Stan Stahl Do you want starstuff too.
And we get what.
Well we get the most dictionaries but notice the value of key too.
He too has a value of three.
That's because D2 was March last and therefore there's the value for key to overload.
Basically overwrote the value that key to had when we unpack.
D1.
So the order in which you do it won't matter.
So if we do two first and then unpack the one you'll notice that the value of key to is to.
So just something to bear in mind.
Now you can also unpack dictionaries as you're creating dictionary literals so maybe I'm creating a
dictionary.
A value of one.
And then I'm going to be a value to and then on the two couldn't do you one while I'm at it and then
I'm going to put C value free for x.
So that works perfectly fine.
We just get that D-1 will be most inside of the dictionary.
Note here by the way the order in which this was displayed and which is being iterated is not the same
as the order in which we actually specify the items in the dictionary.
Again sets and dictionaries does not guarantee an order pocket.
The next thing we need to look at is nested unpacking.
So with nested unpacking we saw that in the lecture it's pretty straightforward.
We can do something like this.
OK we can say a B comma or C or D.
Is equal to that say we're going on past this list.
One two.
And then we'll unpack the string x y.
OK.
So what's going to happen is that is going to be one B's going to be two and it's going to be the string
x y.
But of course a string is also iterable so you can unpack it so you could say See comedy equals.
Right.
And so now C is X and D is one so we can actually specify this directly over here instead of unpacking
into the we're going to unpack into a sub couple essentially see comedy and we're going to make that
equal to one promise to promise those same things before we're going to unpack the same right hand side.
But now when we do this we have one of these to see is X and DS y.
So that is nested unpacking.
Now of course you can even do something like this.
You can say a comma comment and I'm going to take C D and start V and I'm going to make this equal to
1 2 and then we'll take the longest string.
So it's a python.
What's going to happen here.
While one is going to get unpacked a two's going to get unpacked the and then Python is going to get
unpacked this tuple.
But this tuple is itself getting unpacked right.
We're going to unpack Python into the individual elements.
So he's going to go into see why it's going to go into D and then the rest of the string is going to
go into areas of list.
So in fact when we execute that we do get that is one that used to see is P D is y and z is the rest
of the string as a list.
So Th.
OK so you remember the challenge that I posed to you in the last video.
So this is basically how can we do the same thing here but using slicing instead.
So let's take a look.
Let's start with a list and we'll make it one two three.
I'm going to just make a little bit longer because I want to show that I'm not going to hard code any
values.
And so I want something that can work with either you know any length of list.
And then also any length of string.
So let's go ahead and do that.
And let's take our list.
So remember if you were to use unpacking we would simply use whole copy paste that
make that equal to L and then we can print a B C D and B.
And so we get 1 2 3 4 p y and then th or N as a list.
So let's do that now using slicing.
So the first element we're going to want to look at is going to be the first.
So that's the first element that's one.
Then we want the rest except for the last element.
So let me just take care of the last element which is going to be negative 1.
Now we're not quite done then here.
Now we want to take everything in between.
So we're going to go from one negative one.
Now for this last element I don't want to just bring it back you know as a string.
I want to break it up into the first character's second character and then the rest.
So we want to take the first character.
Then we want to take the second character and we want to take the rest of the string.
So we're going to start that character too and we're going to go all the way to the end.
So when we do that we're almost there.
Right.
We have 1 2 3 4 p.
Y and then th O-N but th.
And you'll notice here is a string and we want that as a list.
Well that's pretty straightforward.
We can just use the constructor for example and we'll do that then we get back exactly what we had over
there.
So then if I wanted to get exactly this I would have to say a column of B commas C comedy.
Comedy equals.
And then we'll do the parallel assignment will unpack the twofold basically into the tuple over here
and we can then print everything out and we'll get the identical result.
So one two three four p y th o n as you can see it's identical.
Now of course this will work for any list L and this will work actually and this will work for any string.
But moreover it will work for any iterable type.
Right.
That is indexable and it will also work in the outer one for iterable type that is indexable.
So for example we could do something like this.
This will work equally well.
We might take let's say a two pole and we're going to instead of using a string Kesh maybe we'll use
a list that contains all three or four elements.
So if we do that then unpacking using this.
So let me just copy paste this code.
If we do that we get one two three four a b and then CD and using this method which will work equally
well we'll get one two three four a b and c d.
Notice however that be here because we're slicing a tuple is returning a tuple.
So again we would have to fix that in order to get a list if we wanted to match exactly what we have
here.
We would have to make this into a list game.
And so this achieves the same thing.
So you can see this is a very elegant way of unpacking.
Certainly you can use it using slicing right.
You can slice instead or you can use unpacking.
The other advantage of unpacking is that it works for any iterable not just slice of all types.
So for example and it's less useful maybe but instead of having that say a string or a list here maybe
you've got a set right.
Or maybe this is a dictionary and you want to unpack things.
So again the unpacking is a little more general than slicing because you don't need indexable collections.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.